# Setting Up Spring Cloud Config Server

In this tutorial, we will set up a Spring Cloud Config Server from scratch. By the end of this tutorial, we will have it up and running. Let’s get started!

## Step 1: Create a New Spring Boot Project

1. Go to [start.spring.io](https://start.spring.io).
2. Create a new Spring Boot project.
3. Add the `Config Server` dependency.

   - The Config Server dependency is required for setting up the Spring Cloud Config Server.

4. Download the project and open it in IntelliJ IDEA.

## Step 2: Add the Config Server Annotation

1. Open the `main` class (e.g., `SpringCloudConfigServerApplication`).
2. Add the annotation `@EnableConfigServer` to enable the Config Server.

## Step 3: Specify the Configuration Source

The Config Server needs a source to pull configuration values from. For this tutorial, we will use a local Git repository.

### 3.1: Set Up a Local Git Repository

1. Create a directory named `config-repo` in your local machine.
2. Inside this directory, create a configuration file named `application.yml`.
3. Add configuration content to `application.yml`. For example:

   ```yaml
   some.property: "value from config server"
   another.property: "another value"
   ```

4. Initialize the directory as a Git repository:

   ```bash
   git init
   git add .
   git commit -m "Initial commit"
   ```

### 3.2: Link the Git Repository to Config Server

1. Open the `application.properties` file of the Config Server project.
2. Add the following property:

   ```properties
   spring.cloud.config.server.git.uri=file://${HOME}/code/config-repo
   ```

   - Replace `${HOME}/code/config-repo` with the path to your local Git repository.
   - Use `file://` as the prefix to specify a local file system path.

## Step 4: Change the Default Port

The default port for the application is `8080`, which might conflict with other services. Change it to `8888` by adding the following property:

```properties
server.port=8888
```

## Step 5: Start the Config Server

1. Run the application.
2. The server will start on port `8888`.

## Step 6: Access Configuration Properties

To access properties, use the following URL format:

```
http://localhost:8888/{application}/{profile}
```

For example:

- If the file in the Git repository is named `application.yml`:
  - Application: `application`
  - Profile: `default`

Use the URL: `http://localhost:8888/application/default`

You should see the properties defined in `application.yml` returned as a JSON response.


## Setting Up Spring Cloud Config Using a GitHub Repository

### Step 1: Create a GitHub Repository
- Create a repository to store your application properties, for example: [https://github.com/sharmanihal/config-props](https://github.com/sharmanihal/config-props).

### Step 2: Configure the Spring Cloud Config Server
- Add the repository URI to the `application.properties` file of your Spring Cloud Config Server:
  ```properties
  spring.cloud.config.server.git.uri=https://github.com/sharmanihal/config-props
  ```

### Step 3: Accessing Properties
- You can access the properties defined in the remote repository using the following syntax:
  ```
  http://localhost:8888/{application}/{profile}
  ```

### Step 4: Auto-Update Properties
- Every time you commit new properties to the repository, the changes will be reflected in the Cloud Config Server.

### Security Considerations for Public Repositories
- Storing sensitive properties in a public repository poses security risks.
- To mitigate this:
  - Create a **private Git repository**.
  - Set up access control by providing an API token.

### Configuring Access for Private Repositories
- Use the following properties in your `application.properties` file to authenticate with a private repository:
  ```properties
  spring.cloud.config.server.git.username=<username>
  spring.cloud.config.server.git.password=<api-token>
  
