001. Service Discovery/018. Starting Eureka Server.md, before:

# Setting up a Eureka Server in Spring Boot

Eureka Server is a service registry provided by Netflix’s Eureka and is used for service discovery in microservices architectures. This guide explains the step-by-step process to set up and run a Eureka Server using Spring Boot.

---

## Steps to Set Up the Eureka Server

### 1. **Creating a Eureka Server**
- **No Dedicated Eureka Server Download**: You don’t download a Eureka Server directly. Instead, you create it as a Spring Boot application.
- **Use Spring Initializer**:
  - Go to [Spring Initializer](https://start.spring.io/).
  - Set the `Group` and `Artifact` (e.g., `org.example.discovery-server`).
  - Add the `Eureka Server` dependency.
  - Generate and download the Spring Boot project.

### 2. **Adding Dependencies**
Check the `pom.xml` file for the following dependency:
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.cloud</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-cloud-starter-netflix-eureka-server</artifactId>
</dependency>
```
If not included, add it manually.

### 3. **Enabling Eureka Server**
Add the `@EnableEurekaServer` annotation to the main application class to designate it as a Eureka Server:
```java
@SpringBootApplication
@EnableEurekaServer
public class DiscoveryServerApplication {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(DiscoveryServerApplication.class, args);
    }
}
```

### 4. **Handling JAX-B Errors**

JAXB (Java Architecture for XML Binding) is a framework in Java that allows you to convert Java objects to XML and vice versa. It provides a convenient way to handle XML data by mapping it to Java classes, eliminating the need for manual parsing or building XML trees.
Key Features of JAXB

    Object-XML Mapping (OXM):
        Automatically binds Java classes to XML schemas.
        Converts XML data to Java objects (unmarshalling).
        Converts Java objects to XML data (marshalling).
        
- If using Java 11 or later, you may encounter JAX-B-related errors. JAX-B was removed from the JDK starting with Java 9.
- Add the following dependencies to handle these errors:
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>javax.xml.bind</groupId>
    <artifactId>jaxb-api</artifactId>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.glassfish.jaxb</groupId>
    <artifactId>jaxb-runtime</artifactId>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>javax.activation</groupId>
    <artifactId>activation</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

### 5. **Configuring Properties**
Add the following properties to `application.properties`:
```properties
# Set Eureka Server port (optional, default is 8761)
server.port=8761

# Prevent Eureka Server from registering with itself
eureka.client.register-with-eureka=false
eureka.client.fetch-registry=false
```

These properties ensure that the Eureka Server doesn’t try to act as a client by registering itself or fetching registries from other servers.

### 6. **Running the Eureka Server**
- Run the Spring Boot application. In the logs, you should see `Started Eureka Server`.
- Access the Eureka Server UI at `http://localhost:8761`.

---

## Understanding the Eureka Server UI
When you access the Eureka Server UI:
- **System Status**: Displays uptime and other metrics.
- **Registered Instances**: Initially, this section will be empty because no microservices have been registered yet.

---

## Additional Notes
1. **Eureka Client Dependency**:
   - Microservices that need to register with the Eureka Server must include the `Eureka Discovery Client` dependency.

2. **Multiple Eureka Servers**:
   - You can have multiple Eureka Server instances to ensure high availability.
   - By default, Eureka servers register with each other. Use the above properties to disable this behavior if it’s a standalone server.

3. **Default Port**:
   - The Eureka Server runs on port `8761` by default. This can be customized using the `server.port` property.

4. **Errors Without Configuration**:
   - If you don’t configure the `eureka.client.register-with-eureka` and `eureka.client.fetch-registry` properties, you might see errors in the logs. However, the server will still function.

---

By following these steps, you’ve successfully set up a standalone Eureka Server using Spring Boot.

Commit message:

Update 018. Starting Eureka Server.md

001. Service Discovery/018. Starting Eureka Server.md, after:

# Setting up a Eureka Server in Spring Boot

Eureka Server is a service registry provided by Netflix’s Eureka and is used for service discovery in microservices architectures. This guide explains the step-by-step process to set up and run a Eureka Server using Spring Boot.

---

## Steps to Set Up the Eureka Server

### 1. **Creating a Eureka Server**
- **No Dedicated Eureka Server Download**: You don’t download a Eureka Server directly. Instead, you create it as a Spring Boot application.
- **Use Spring Initializer**:
  - Go to [Spring Initializer](https://start.spring.io/).
  - Set the `Group` and `Artifact` (e.g., `org.example.discovery-server`).
  - Add the `Eureka Server` dependency.
  - Generate and download the Spring Boot project.

### 2. **Adding Dependencies**
Check the `pom.xml` file for the following dependency:
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.cloud</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-cloud-starter-netflix-eureka-server</artifactId>
</dependency>
```
If not included, add it manually.

### 3. **Enabling Eureka Server**
Add the `@EnableEurekaServer` annotation to the main application class to designate it as a Eureka Server:
```java
@SpringBootApplication
@EnableEurekaServer
public class DiscoveryServerApplication {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(DiscoveryServerApplication.class, args);
    }
}
```

### 4. **Handling JAX-B Errors**

JAXB (Java Architecture for XML Binding) is a framework in Java that allows you to convert Java objects to XML and vice versa. It provides a convenient way to handle XML data by mapping it to Java classes, eliminating the need for manual parsing or building XML trees.
Key Features of JAXB

    Object-XML Mapping (OXM):
        Automatically binds Java classes to XML schemas.
        Converts XML data to Java objects (unmarshalling).
        Converts Java objects to XML data (marshalling).
        
- If using Java 11 or later, you may encounter JAX-B-related errors. JAX-B was removed from the JDK starting with Java 9.
- Add the following dependencies to handle these errors:
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>javax.xml.bind</groupId>
    <artifactId>jaxb-api</artifactId>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.glassfish.jaxb</groupId>
    <artifactId>jaxb-runtime</artifactId>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>javax.activation</groupId>
    <artifactId>activation</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

### 5. **Configuring Properties**
Add the following properties to `application.properties`:
```properties
# Set Eureka Server port (optional, default is 8761)
server.port=8761

# Prevent Eureka Server from registering with itself
eureka.client.register-with-eureka=false
eureka.client.fetch-registry=false
```


1. **`eureka.client.register-with-eureka=false`**:
   - Normally, a Eureka client registers itself with a Eureka Server for service discovery. Since the Eureka Server itself can act as a client by default, this property disables that behavior, ensuring the server does not register itself as a client.

2. **`eureka.client.fetch-registry=false`**:
   - This property prevents the Eureka Server from attempting to fetch the registry of other Eureka Servers. This is useful for standalone setups where there is only one Eureka Server instance, as there are no other registries to fetch.

These properties ensure that the Eureka Server doesn’t try to act as a client by registering itself or fetching registries from other servers.

### 6. **Running the Eureka Server**
- Run the Spring Boot application. In the logs, you should see `Started Eureka Server`.
- Access the Eureka Server UI at `http://localhost:8761`.

---

## Understanding the Eureka Server UI
When you access the Eureka Server UI:
- **System Status**: Displays uptime and other metrics.
- **Registered Instances**: Initially, this section will be empty because no microservices have been registered yet.

---

## Additional Notes
1. **Eureka Client Dependency**:
   - Microservices that need to register with the Eureka Server must include the `Eureka Discovery Client` dependency.

2. **Multiple Eureka Servers**:
   - You can have multiple Eureka Server instances to ensure high availability.
   - By default, Eureka servers register with each other. Use the above properties to disable this behavior if it’s a standalone server.

3. **Default Port**:
   - The Eureka Server runs on port `8761` by default. This can be customized using the `server.port` property.

4. **Errors Without Configuration**:
   - If you don’t configure the `eureka.client.register-with-eureka` and `eureka.client.fetch-registry` properties, you might see errors in the logs. However, the server will still function.

---

By following these steps, you’ve successfully set up a standalone Eureka Server using Spring Boot.
