# Introduction

Sooner or later everyone needs to add security to their project, and in the Spring ecosystem, you do that with the help of the Spring Security library.

So you go along, add Spring Security to your Spring Boot (or plain Spring) project and suddenly...

- You have auto-generated login pages.
- You cannot execute POST requests anymore.
- Your whole application is on lockdown and prompts you to enter a username and password.

Having survived the subsequent mental breakdown, you might be interested in how all of this works.

## What is Spring Security and How Does It Work?

### The Short Answer

At its core, Spring Security is really just a bunch of servlet filters that help you add authentication and authorization to your web application.

It also integrates well with frameworks like Spring Web MVC (or Spring Boot), as well as with standards like OAuth2 or SAML. And it auto-generates login/logout pages and protects against common exploits like CSRF.

Now, that doesn’t really help, does it?

Luckily, there’s also a long answer.


## Web Application Security: 101

Before you become a Spring Security Guru, you need to understand three important concepts:

- **Authentication**
- **Authorization**
- **Servlet Filters**


# Authentication and Authorization

## 1. Authentication

First off, if you are running a typical (web) application, you need your users to authenticate. That means your application needs to verify if the user is who he claims to be, typically done with a username and password check.

**User**: "I’m the president of the United States. My username is: potus!"

**Your webapp**: "Sure sure, what’s your password then, Mr. President?"

**User**: "My password is: th3don4ld".

**Your webapp**: "Correct. Welcome, Sir!"

## 2. Authorization

In simpler applications, authentication might be enough: As soon as a user authenticates, she can access every part of an application.

But most applications have the concept of permissions (or roles). Imagine: customers who have access to the public-facing frontend of your webshop, and administrators who have access to a separate admin area.

Both types of users need to login, but the mere fact of authentication doesn’t say anything about what they are allowed to do in your system. Hence, you also need to check the permissions of an authenticated user, i.e. you need to authorize the user.

**User**: "Let me play with that nuclear football…​."

**Your webapp**: "One second, I need to check your permissions first…​..yes Mr. President, you have the right clearance level. Enjoy."

**User**: "What was that red button again…​??"


Let's look at what is servlet and servlet filter next?
