# How to Configure Spring Security: WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter

With the latest Spring Security and/or Spring Boot versions, the way to configure Spring Security is by having a class that:

- Is annotated with `@EnableWebSecurity`.
- Extends `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter`, which basically offers you a configuration DSL/methods. With those methods, you can specify what URIs in your application to protect or what exploit protections to enable/disable.

Here’s what a typical `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter` looks like:

```java
@Configuration
@EnableWebSecurity // (1)
public class WebSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter { // (1)

  @Override
  protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {  // (2)
      http
        .authorizeRequests()
          .antMatchers("/", "/home").permitAll() // (3)
          .anyRequest().authenticated() // (4)
          .and()
       .formLogin() // (5)
         .loginPage("/login") // (5)
         .permitAll()
         .and()
      .logout() // (6)
        .permitAll()
        .and()
      .httpBasic(); // (7)
  }
}
```

1. A normal Spring `@Configuration` with the `@EnableWebSecurity` annotation, extending from `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter`.

2. By overriding the adapter’s `configure(HttpSecurity)` method, you get a nice little DSL with which you can configure your FilterChain.

3. All requests going to `/` and `/home` are allowed (permitted) - the user does not have to authenticate. You are using an `antMatcher`, which means you could have also used wildcards (`*`, `**`, `?`) in the string.

4. Any other request needs the user to be authenticated first, i.e., the user needs to log in.

5. You are allowing form login (username/password in a form), with a custom loginPage (`/login`, i.e., not Spring Security’s auto-generated one). Anyone should be able to access the login page, without having to log in first (`permitAll`; otherwise, we would have a Catch-22!).

6. The same goes for the logout page.

7. On top of that, you are also allowing Basic Auth, i.e., sending in an HTTP Basic Auth Header to authenticate.

## How to Use Spring Security’s Configure DSL

It takes some time getting used to that DSL, but you’ll find more examples in the FAQ section: AntMatchers: Common Examples.

What is important for now is that THIS `configure` method is where you specify:

- What URLs to protect (`authenticated()`) and which ones are allowed (`permitAll()`).
- Which authentication methods are allowed (`formLogin()`, `httpBasic()`) and how they are configured.

In short: your application’s complete security configuration.

### Note:

You wouldn’t have needed to immediately override the adapter’s `configure` method, because it comes with a pretty reasonable implementation by default. This is what it looks like:

```java
public abstract class WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter implements
		WebSecurityConfigurer<WebSecurity> {

    protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
            http
                .authorizeRequests()
                    .anyRequest().authenticated()  // (1)
                    .and()
                .formLogin().and()   // (2)
                .httpBasic();  // (3)
        }
}
```

1. To access any URI (`anyRequest()`) on your application, you need to authenticate (`authenticated()`).

2. Form Login (`formLogin()`) with default settings is enabled.

3. As is HTTP Basic authentication (`httpBasic()`).

This default configuration is why your application is on lock-down as soon as you add Spring Security to it. Simple, isn’t it?

## Summary: WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter’s DSL Configuration

We learned that Spring Security consists of a couple of filters that you configure with a `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter` `@Configuration` class.

But there’s one crucial piece missing. Let’s take Spring’s `BasicAuthFilter` for example. It can extract a username/password from an HTTP Basic Auth header, but what does it authenticate these credentials against?

This naturally leads us to the question of how authentication works with Spring Security.
