# Creating a Dockerfile for Automating Image Creation

## Dockerfile Instructions for Building a Spring Boot Project Image

1. **Specify the base image**
   - This instruction sets the base image for your project.
   ```dockerfile
   FROM openjdk:8-jdk-alpine
   ```

2. **Expose the container port**
   - The `EXPOSE` instruction makes port 8080 available within the container network. (To map it to the host network, use `-p 8080:8080` when running the container.)
   ```dockerfile
   EXPOSE 8080
   ```

3. **Copy the JAR file into the image**
   - The `ADD` instruction copies the JAR file from your local project directory to the root of the base image.
   ```dockerfile
   ADD target/hello-world-rest-api.jar hello-world-rest-api.jar
   ```

4. **Set the default command to run**
   - The `ENTRYPOINT` instruction specifies the command that will be executed when a container is started using this image.
   ```dockerfile
   ENTRYPOINT ["sh", "-c", "java -jar /hello-world-rest-api.jar"]
   ```


Dockerfile final look :
```dockerfile
FROM openjdk:8-jdk-alpine
EXPOSE 8080
ADD target/hello-world-rest-api.jar hello-world-rest-api.jar
ENTRYPOINT ["sh", "-c", "java -jar /hello-world-rest-api.jar"]
```
---
## Now to create an image using this Dockerfile we will run the below command:

```bash
docker build -t nihal/hello-world-rest-api:dockerfile3 .
```
- **`docker build`**: Builds a Docker image using the Dockerfile.
- **`-t nihal/hello-world-rest-api:dockerfile3`**: Assigns the name `nihal/hello-world-rest-api` with the tag `dockerfile3` to the built image.
- **`.`**: Specifies the current directory as the build context.

After running this command:
1. A Docker image named `nihal/hello-world-rest-api` with the tag `dockerfile3` will be created.
2. The image can be viewed with `docker images`.
3. The image can be run using `docker run -p 8080:8080 nihal/hello-world-rest-api:dockerfile3`.
