# Pushing an Image to Docker Hub
## Docker Hub Account

To create a new account:

1. Go to [hub.docker.com](https://hub.docker.com).
2. Sign up for Docker Hub.
   - Enter your Docker ID, password, and email.
   - Read and agree to the Terms of Service.
   - Continue to receive a verification email.
   - Check your spam folder if necessary.
   - Click the verification link and log in with your new account.

**Important:** Your Docker ID is different from your email. Use your Docker ID and password to log in.

## Logging In

To log in, use the command:
```bash
docker login
```

1. Enter your Docker ID as the username.
2. Enter your password.
3. Upon successful login, you can start the process of pushing images.

## Building the Image with Your Docker ID

Before pushing the image:
1. Run the following command to build the image:(since we are using spotify dockerfile-maven-plugin, mvn package will build the image uisng the dockerfile)
```bash
mvn clean package
```

## Pushing the Image

To push the image:
1. Check the available images:
```bash
docker images
```
2. Push the image to your repository:
```bash
docker push <repository>:<tag>
```
For example:
```bash
docker push your-docker-id/todo-web-application-h2:0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
```

Docker will default to `docker.io` and begin pushing the image. This process may take a while.


## Verifying on Docker Hub

1. Log in to [hub.docker.com](https://hub.docker.com) with your Docker ID.
2. Check your repository. For example, `todo-web-application-h2`.
3. A new repository with the tag `0.0.1-SNAPSHOT` should be created.

### Adding a Description
You can add a description for the repository and view its public-facing page.

Example URL:
```
hub.docker.com/r/<docker-id>/todo-web-application-h2
```
