# Running Spring Boot Application with MySQL in Docker Containers

This guide explains how to create a Docker container for a Spring Boot application and connect it to a MySQL container.

## Dockerfile

To create a Docker container for the Spring Boot application, you can use the following `Dockerfile`:

```dockerfile
FROM openjdk:8-jdk-alpine
EXPOSE 8080
ADD target/*.jar app.jar
ENTRYPOINT ["sh", "-c", "java -jar /app.jar"]
```

### Steps:
- The base image is `openjdk:8-jdk-alpine`.
- The application is packaged into a JAR file and added to the container.
- The container will expose port 8080.
- The entrypoint is set to run the JAR file using `java -jar`.

## Integrating with Maven Build

To integrate Docker image creation into the Maven build process, you can use plugins like **Spotify Docker** or **Fabric8**. This will allow you to automatically build a Docker image whenever you run `mvn package`.

### Changes to Application Properties

Previously, when connecting to a local MySQL instance, the application properties would look like this:

```properties
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/todos
spring.datasource.username=todos-user
spring.datasource.password=dummytodos
```

However, when running in Docker, we need to update the connection properties to point to the MySQL container, rather than localhost:

```properties
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://${RDS_HOSTNAME:localhost}:${RDS_PORT:3306}/${RDS_DB_NAME:todos}
spring.datasource.username=${RDS_USERNAME:todos-user}
spring.datasource.password=${RDS_PASSWORD:dummytodos}
```

This change allows the application to use environment variables to configure the MySQL connection:
- `RDS_HOSTNAME`: The hostname of the MySQL container (defaults to `localhost`).
- `RDS_PORT`: The port of the MySQL instance (defaults to `3306`).
- `RDS_DB_NAME`: The database name (defaults to `todos`).
- `RDS_USERNAME`: The MySQL username (defaults to `todos-user`).
- `RDS_PASSWORD`: The MySQL password (defaults to `dummytodos`).

## Running the Containers

To run the Spring Boot application and connect it to the MySQL container, use the following `docker run` command:

```bash
docker run -p 8080:8080 --link mysql -e RDS_HOSTNAME=mysql -e RDS_PORT=3306 <app-image-name>
```

### Explanation:
- `-p 8080:8080`: This binds the container's port 8080 to the host's port 8080, so you can access the app at `http://localhost:8080`.
- `--link mysql`: This links the MySQL container to the Spring Boot app container, allowing communication between them.
- `-e RDS_HOSTNAME=mysql`: This sets the environment variable `RDS_HOSTNAME` to `mysql` (the name of the MySQL container).
- `-e RDS_PORT=3306`: This sets the environment variable `RDS_PORT` to `3306` (the MySQL default port).
- `<app-image-name>`: The name of your Spring Boot app Docker image.

## Network Configuration

Docker containers run on a bridge network by default. The `--link` option is used to allow containers to communicate with each other. In this case, it links the Spring Boot app container to the MySQL container, ensuring they can communicate.
